_To Roast Beef._

The general rules are, to have a brisk hot fire, to hang down rather
than to spit, to baste with salt and water, and one quarter of an hour
to every pound of beef, tho' tender beef will require less, while old
tough beef will require more roasting; pricking with a fork will
determine you whether done or not; rare done is the healthiest and the
taste of this age.


_Roast Mutton._

If a breast let it be cauled, if a leg, stuffed or not, let be done
more gently than beef, and done more; the chine, saddle or leg require
more fire and longer time than the breast, &c. Garnish with scraped
horse radish, and serve with potatoes, beans, colliflowers,
water-cresses, or boiled onion, caper sauce, mashed turnip, or
lettuce.


_Roast Veal._

As it is more tender than beef or mutton, and easily scorched, paper
it, especially the fat parts, lay it some distance from the fire a
while to heat gently, baste it well; a 15 pound piece requires one
hour and a quarter roasting; garnish with green-parsley and sliced
lemon.


_Roast Lamb._

Lay down to a clear good fire that will not want stirring or altering,
baste with butter, dust on flour, baste with the dripping, and before
you take it up, add more butter and sprinkle on a little salt and
parsley shred fine; send to table with a nice sallad, green peas,
fresh beans, or a colliflower, or asparagus.


_To stuff a Turkey._

Grate a wheat loaf, one quarter of a pound butter, one quarter of a
pound salt pork, finely chopped, 2 eggs, a little sweet marjoram,
summer savory, parsley and sage, pepper and salt (if the pork be not
sufficient,) fill the bird and sew up.

The same will answer for all Wild Fowl.


_Water Fowls_ require onions.

The same ingredients stuff a _leg of Veal, fresh Pork_ or a _loin of
Veal_.


_To stuff and roast a Turkey, or Fowl._

One pound soft wheat bread, 3 ounces beef suet, 3 eggs, a little sweet
thyme, sweet marjoram, pepper and salt, and some add a gill of wine;
fill the bird therewith and sew up, hang down to a steady solid fire,
basting frequently with salt and water, and roast until a steam emits
from the breast, put one third of a pound of butter into the gravy,
dust flour over the bird and baste with the gravy; serve up with
boiled onions and cramberry-sauce, mangoes, pickles or celery.

2. Others omit the sweet herbs, and add parsley done with potatoes.

3. Boil and mash 3 pints potatoes, wet them with butter, add sweet
herbs, pepper, salt, fill and roast as above.


_To stuff and roast a Goslin._

Boil the inwards tender, chop them fine, put double quantity of grated
bread, 4 ounces butter, pepper, salt, (and sweet herbs if you like) 2
eggs moulded into the stuffing, parboil 4 onions and chop them into
the stuffing, add wine, and roast the bird.

The above is a good stuffing for every kind of Water Fowl, which
requires onion sauce.


_To smother a Fowl in Oysters._

Fill the bird with dry Oysters, and sew up and boil in water just
sufficient to cover the bird, salt and season to your taste--when done
tender, put into a deep dish and pour over it a pint of stewed
oysters, well buttered and peppered, garnish a turkey with sprigs of
parsley or leaves of cellery: a fowl is best with a parsley sauce.


_To stuff a Leg of Veal._

Take one pound of veal, half pound pork (salted,) one pound grated
bread, chop all very fine, with a handful of green parsley, pepper it,
add 3 ounces butter and 3 eggs, (and sweet herbs if you like them,)
cut the leg round like a ham and stab it full of holes, and fill in
all the stuffing; then salt and pepper the leg and dust on some flour;
if baked in an oven, put into a sauce pan with a little water, if
potted, lay some scewers at the bottom of the pot, put in a little
water and lay the leg on the scewers, with a gentle fire render it
tender, (frequently adding water,) when done take out the leg, put
butter in the pot and brown the leg, the gravy in a separate vessel
must be thickened and buttered and a spoonful of ketchup added.


_To stuff a leg of Pork to bake or roast._

Corn the leg 48 hours and stuff with sausage meat and bake in a hot
oven two hours and an half or roast.


_To alamode a round of Beef._

To a 14 or 16 pound round of beef, put one ounce salt-petre, 48 hours
after stuff it with the following: one and half pound beef, one pound
salt pork, two pound grated bread, chop all fine and rub in half pound
butter, salt, pepper and cayenne, summer savory, thyme; lay it on
scewers in a large pot, over 3 pints hot water (which it must
occasionally be supplied with,) the steam of which in 4 or 5 hours
will render the round tender if over a moderate fire; when tender,
take away the gravy and thicken with flour and butter, and boil, brown
the round with butter and flour, adding ketchup and wine to your
taste.


_To alamode a round_.

Take fat pork cut in slices or mince, season it with pepper, salt,
sweet marjoram and thyme, cloves, mace and nutmeg, make holes in the
beef and stuff it the night before cooked; put some bones across the
bottom of the pot to keep from burning, put in one quart Claret wine,
one quart water and one onion; lay the round on the bones, cover close
and stop it round the top with dough; hang on in the morning and stew
gently two hours; turn it, and stop tight and stew two hours more;
when done tender, grate a crust of bread on the top and brown it
before the fire; scum the gravy and serve in a butter boat, serve it
with the residue of the gravy in the dish.


_To Dress a Turtle_.

Fill a boiler or kettle, with a quantity of water sufficient to scald
the callapach and Callapee, the fins, &c. and about 9 o'clock hang up
your Turtle by the hind fins, cut of the head and save the blood, take
a sharp pointed knife and separate the callapach from the callapee, or
the back from the belly part, down to the shoulders, so as to come at
the entrails which take out, and clean them, as you would those of any
other animal, and throw them into a tub of clean water, taking great
care not to break the gall, but to cut it off from the liver and throw
it away, then separate each distinctly and put the guts into another
vessel, open them with a small pen-knife end to end, wash them clean,
and draw them through a woolen cloth, in warm water, to clear away the
slime and then put them in clean cold water till they are used with
the other part of the entrails, which must be cut up small to be mixed
in the baking dishes with the meat; this done, separate the back and
belly pieces, entirely cutting away the fore fins by the upper joint,
which scald; peal off the loose skin and cut them into small pieces,
laying them by themselves, either in another vessel, or on the table,
ready to be seasoned; then cut off the meat from the belly part, and
clean the back from the lungs, kidneys, &c. and that meat cut into
pieces as small as a walnut, laying it likewise by itself; after this
you are to scald the back, and belly pieces, pulling off the shell
from the back, and the yellow skin from the belly, when all will be
white and clean, and with the kitchen cleaver cut those up likewise
into pieces about the bigness or breadth of a card; put those pieces
into clean cold water, wash them and place them in a heap on the
table, so that each part may lay by itself; the meat being thus
prepared and laid separate for seasoning; mix two third parts of salt
or rather more, and one third part of cyanne pepper, black pepper, and
a nutmeg, and mace pounded fine, and mixt all together; the quantity,
to be proportioned to the size of the Turtle, so that in each dish
there may be about three spoonfuls of seasoning to every twelve pound
of meat; your meat being thus seasoned, get some sweet herbs, such as
thyme, savory, &c. let them be dryed an rub'd fine, and having
provided some deep dishes to bake it in, which should be of the common
brown ware, put in the coarsest part of the meat, put a quarter pound
of butter at the bottom of each dish, and then put some of each of the
several parcels of meat, so that the dishes may be all alike and have
equal portions of the different parts of the Turtle, and between each
laying of meat strew a little of the mixture of sweet herbs, fill your
dishes within an inch an half, or two inches of the top; boil the
blood of the Turtle, and put into it, then lay on forcemeat balls made
of veal, highly seasoned with the same seasoning as the Turtle; put in
each dish a gill of Madeira Wine, and as much water as it will
conveniently hold, then break over it five or six eggs to keep the
meat from scorching at the top, and over that shake a handful of
shread parsley, to make it look green, when done put your dishes into
an oven made hot enough to bake bread, and in an hour and half, or two
hours (according to the size of the dishes) it will be sufficiently
done.


_To dress a Calve's Head._ Turtle fashion.

The head and feet being well scalded and cleaned, open the head,
taking the brains, wash, pick and cleanse, salt and pepper and parsley
them and put bye in a cloth; boil the head, feet and heartslet one and
quarter, or one and half hour, sever out the bones, cut the skin and
meat in slices, drain the liquor in which boiled and put by; clean the
pot very clean or it will burn too, make a layer of the slices, which
dust with a composition made of black pepper one spoon, of sweet herbs
pulverized, two spoons (sweet marjoram and thyme are most approved) a
tea spoon of cayenne, one pound butter, then dust with flour, then a
layer of slices with slices of veal and seasoning till compleated,
cover with the liquor, stew gently three quarters of an hour. To make
the forced meat balls--take one and half pound veal, one pound grated
bread, 4 ounces raw salt pork, mince and season with above and work
with 3 whites into balls, one or one an half inch diameter, roll in
flour, and fry in very hot butter till brown, then chop the brains
fine and stir into the whole mess in the pot, put thereto, one third
part of the fryed balls and a pint wine or less, when all is heated
thro' take off and serve in tureens, laying the residue of the balls
and hard boiled and pealed eggs into a dish, garnish with slices of
lemon.


_A Stew Pie._

Boil a shoulder of Veal, and cut up, salt, pepper, and butter half
pound, and slices of raw salt pork, make a layer of meat, and a layer
of biscuit, or biscuit dough into a pot, cover close and stew half an
hour in three quarts of water only.


A _Sea Pie_.

Four pound of flour, one and half pound of butter rolled into paste,
wet with cold water, line the pot therewith, lay in split pigeons,
turkey pies, veal, mutton or birds, with slices of pork, salt, pepper,
and dust on flour, doing thus till the pot is full or your ingredients
expended, add three pints water, cover tight with paste, and stew
moderately two and half hours.


A _Chicken Pie_.

Pick and clean six chickens, (without scalding) take out their inwards
and wash the birds while whole, then joint the birds, salt and pepper
the pieces and inwards. Roll one inch thick paste No. 8 and cover a
deep dish, and double at the rim or edge of the dish, put thereto a
layer of chickens and a layer of thin slices of butter, till the
chickens and one and a half pound butter are expended, which cover
with a thick paste; bake one and a half hour.

Or if your oven be poor, parboil, the chickens with half a pound of
butter, and put the pieces with the remaining one pound of butter, and
half the gravy into the paste, and while boiling, thicken the residue
of the gravy, and when the pie is drawn, open the crust, and add the
gravy.


_Minced Pies_, A Foot Pie.

Scald neets feet, and clean well, (grass fed are best) put them into a
large vessel of cold water, which change daily during a week, then
boil the feet till tender, and take away the bones, when cold, chop
fine, to every four pound minced meat, add one pound of beef suet, and
four pound apple raw, and a little salt, chop all together very fine,
add one quart of wine, two pound of stoned raisins, one ounce of
cinnamon, one ounce mace, and sweeten to your taste; make use of paste
No. 3--bake three quarters of an hour.

Weeks after, when you have occasion to use them, carefully raise the
top crust, and with a round edg'd spoon, collect the meat into a
bason, which warm with additional wine and spices to the taste of your
circle, while the crust is also warm'd like a hoe cake, put carefully
together and serve up, by this means you can have hot pies through the
winter, and enrich'd singly to your company.


_Tongue Pie_.

One pound neat's tongue, one pound apple, one third of a pound of
Sugar, one quarter of a pound of butter, one pint of wine, one pound
of raisins, or currants, (or half of each) half ounce of cinnamon and
mace--bake in paste No. 1, in proportion to size.


_Minced Pie of Beef_.

Four pound boild beef, chopped fine; and salted; six pound of raw
apple chopped also, one pound beef suet, one quart of Wine or rich
sweet cyder, one ounce mace, and cinnamon, a nutmeg, two pounds
raisins, bake in paste No. 3, three fourths of an hour.


_Observations_.

All meat pies require a hotter and brisker oven than fruit pies, in
good cookeries, all raisins should be stoned.--As people differ in
their tastes, they may alter to their wishes. And as it is difficult
to ascertain with precision the small articles of spicery; every one
may relish as they like, and suit their taste.


_Apple Pie_.

Stew and strain the apples, to every three pints, grate the peal of a
fresh lemon, add cinnamon, mace, rose-water and sugar to your
taste--and bake in paste No. 3.

Every species of fruit such as peas, plums, raspberries, black berries
may be only sweetened, without spices--and bake in paste No. 3.


_Currant Pies_.

Take green, full grown currants, and one third their quantity of
sugar, proceeding as above.


_A buttered apple Pie_.

Pare, quarter and core tart apples, lay in paste No. 3, cover with the
same; bake half an hour, when drawn, gently raise the top crust, add
sugar, butter, cinnamon, mace, wine or rose-water q: s:


PUDDINGS.

_A Rice Pudding_.

One quarter of a pound rice, a stick of cinnamon, to a quart of milk
(stirred often to keep from burning) and boil quick, cool and add half
a nutmeg, 4 spoons rose-water, 8 eggs; butter or puff paste a dish and
pour the above composition into it, and bake one and half hour.

No. 2. Boil 6 ounces rice in a quart milk, on a slow fire 'till
tender, stir in one pound butter, interim beet 14 eggs, add to the
pudding when cold with sugar, salt, rose-water and spices to your
taste, adding raisins or currants, bake as No. 1.

No. 3. 8 spoons rice boiled in a quarts milk, when cooled add 8 eggs,
6 ounces butter, wine, sugar and spices, q: s: bake 2 hours.

No. 4. Boil in water half pound ground rice till soft, add 2 quarts
milk and scald, cool and add 8 eggs, 6 ounces butter, 1 pound raisins,
salt, cinnamon and a small nutmeg, bake 2 hours.

No. 5. _A cheap one_, half pint rice, 2 quarts milk, salt, butter,
allspice, put cold into a hot oven, bake 2 and half hours.

No. 6. Put 6 ounces rice into water, or milk and water, let swell or
soak tender, then boil gently, stirring in a little butter, when cool
stir in a quart cream, 6 or 8 eggs well beaten, and add cinnamon
nutmeg, and sugar to your taste, bake.

N.B. The mode of introducing the ingredients, is a material point; in
all cases where eggs are mentioned it is understood to be well beat;
whites and yolks and the spices, fine and settled.


_A Nice Indian Pudding_.

No. 1. 3 pints scalded milk, 7 spoons fine Indian meal, stir well
together while hot, let stand till cooled; add 7 eggs, half pound
raisins, 4 ounces butter, spice and sugar, bake one and half hour.

No. 2. 3 pints scalded milk to one pint meal salted; cool, add 2 eggs,
4 ounces butter, sugar or molasses and spice q. f. it will require two
and half hours baking.

No. 3. Salt a pint meal, wet with one quart milk, sweeten and put into
a strong cloth, brass or bell metal vessel, stone or earthern pot,
secure from wet and boil 12 hours.


_A Sunderland Pudding_.

Whip 6 eggs, half the whites, take half a nutmeg, one pint cream and a
little salt, 4 spoons fine flour, oil or butter pans, cups, or bowls,
bake in a quick oven one hour. Eat with sweet sauce.


_A Whitpot_.

Cut half a loaf of bread in dices, pour thereon 2 quarts milk, 6 eggs,
rose-water, nutmeg and half pound of sugar; put into a dish and cover
with paste, No. 1. bake slow 1 hour.


_A Bread Pudding_.

One pound soft bread or biscuit soaked in one quart milk, run thro' a
sieve or cullender, add 7 eggs, three quarters of a pound sugar, one
quarter of a pound butter, nutmeg or cinnamon, one gill rose-water,
one pound stoned raisins, half pint cream, bake three quarters of an
hour, middling oven.


_A Flour Pudding_.

Seven eggs, one quarter of a pound of sugar, and a tea spoon of salt,
beat and put to one quart milk, 5 spoons of flour, cinnamon and nutmeg
to your taste, bake half an hour, and serve up with sweet sauce.


_A boiled Flour Pudding_.

One quart milk, 9 eggs, 7 spoons flour, a little salt, put into a
strong cloth and boiled three quarters of an hour.


_A Cream Almond Pudding_.

Boil gently a little mace and half a nutmeg (grated) in a quart cream;
when cool, beat 8 yolks and 3 whites, strain and mix with one spoon
flour one quarter of a pound almonds; settled, add one spoon
rose-water, and by degrees the cold cream and beat well together; wet
a thick cloth and flour it, and pour in the pudding, boil hard half an
hour, take out, pour over it melted butter and sugar.


_An apple Pudding Dumplin_.

Put into paste, quartered apples, lye in a cloth and boil two hours,
serve with sweet sauce.


_Pears, Plumbs, &c._

Are done the same way.


_Potato Pudding_. Baked.

No. 1. One pound boiled potatoes, one pound sugar, half a pound
butter, 10 eggs.

No. 2. One pound boiled potatoes, mashed, three quarters of a pound
butter, 3 gills milk or cream, the juice of one lemon and the peal
grated, half a pound sugar, half nutmeg, 7 eggs (taking out 3 whites,)
2 spoons rose-water.


_Apple Pudding_.

One pound apple sifted, one pound sugar, 9 eggs, one quarter of a
pound butter, one quart sweet cream, one gill rose-water, a cinnamon,
a green lemon peal grated (if sweet apples,) add the juice of half a
lemon, put on to paste No. 7. Currants, raisins and citron some add,
but good without them.


_Carrot Pudding_.

A coffee cup full of boiled and strained carrots, 5 eggs, 2 ounces
sugar and butter each, cinnamon and rose water to your taste, baked in
a deep dish without paste.


_A Crookneck, or Winter Squash Pudding_.

Core, boil and skin a good squash, and bruize it well; take 6 large
apples, pared, cored, and stewed tender, mix together; add 6 or 7
spoonsful of dry bread or biscuit, rendered fine as meal, half pint
milk or cream, 2 spoons of rose-water, 2 do. wine, 5 or 6 eggs beaten
and strained, nutmeg, salt and sugar to your taste, one spoon flour,
beat all smartly together, bake.

The above is a good receipt for Pompkins, Potatoes or Yams, adding
more moistening or milk and rose water, and to the two latter a few
black or Lisbon currants, or dry whortleberries scattered in, will
make it better.


_Pompkin_.

No. 1. One quart stewed and strained, 3 pints cream, 9 beaten eggs,
sugar, mace, nutmeg and ginger, laid into paste No. 7 or 3, and with a
dough spur, cross and chequer it, and baked in dishes three quarters
of an hour.

No. 2. One quart of milk, 1 pint pompkin, 4 eggs, molasses, allspice
and ginger in a crust, bake 1 hour.


_Orange Pudding_.

Put sixteen yolks with half a pound butter melted, grate in the rinds
of two Seville oranges, beat in half pound of fine Sugar, add two
spoons orange water, two of rose-water, one gill of wine, half pint
cream, two naples biscuit or the crumbs of a fine loaf, or roll soaked
in cream, mix all together, put it into rich puff-paste, which let be
double round the edges of the dish; bake like a custard.


_A Lemon Pudding_.

1. Grate the yellow of the peals of three lemons, then take two whole
lemons, roll under your hand on the table till soft, taking care not
to burst them, cut and squeeze them into the grated peals.

2. Take ten ounces soft wheat bread, and put a pint of scalded white
wine thereto, let soak and put to No. 1.

3. Beat four whites and eight yolks, and put to above, adding three
quarters of a pound of melted butter, (which let be very fresh and
good) one pound fine sugar, beat all together till thorougly mixed.

4. Lay paste No. 7 or 9 on a dish, plate or saucers, and fill with
above composition.

5. Bake near 1 hour, and when baked--stick on pieces of paste, cut
with a jagging iron or a doughspur to your fancy, baked lightly on a
floured paper; garnished thus, they may be served hot or cold.


_Puff Pastes for Tarts_.

No. 1. Rub one pound of butter into one pound of flour, whip 2 whites
and add with cold water and one yolk; make into paste, roll in in six
or seven times one pound of butter, flowring it each roll. This is
good for any small thing.

No. 2. Rub six pound of butter into fourteen pound of flour, eight
eggs, add cold water, make a stiff paste.

No. 3. To any quantity of flour, rub in three fourths of it's weight
of butter, (twelve eggs to a peck) rub in one third or half, and roll
in the rest.

No. 4. Into two quarts flour (salted) and wet stiff with cold water
roll in, in nine or ten times one and half pound of butter.

No. 5. One pound flour, three fourths of a pound of butter, beat well.

No. 6. To one pound of flour rub in one fourth of a pound of butter
wet with three eggs and rolled in a half pound of butter.


_A Paste for Sweet Meats_.

No. 7. Rub one third of one pound of butter, and one pound of lard
into two pound of flour, wet with four whites well beaten; water q: s:
to make a paste, roll in the residue of shortning in ten or twelve
rollings--bake quick.

No. 8. Rub in one and half pound of suet to six pounds of flour, and a
spoon full of salt, wet with cream roll in, in six or eight times, two
and half pounds of butter--good for a chicken or meat pie.


_Royal Paste_.

No. 9. Rub half a pound of butter into one pound of flour, four whites
beat to a foam, add two yolks, two ounces of fine sugar; roll often,
rubbing one third, and rolling two thirds of the butter is best;
excellent for tarts and apple cakes.


CUSTARDS.

1. One pint cream sweetened to your taste, warmed hot; stir in sweet
wine, till curdled, grate in cinnamon and nutmeg.

2. Sweeten a quart of milk, add nutmeg, wine, brandy, rose-water and
six eggs; bake in tea cups or dishes, or boil in water, taking care
that it don't boil into the cups.

3. Put a stick of cinnamon to one quart of milk, boil well, add six
eggs, two spoons of rose-water--bake.

4. _Boiled Custard_--one pint of cream, two ounces of almonds, two
spoons of rose-water, or orange flower water, some mace; boil thick,
then stir in sweetening, and lade off into china cups, and serve up.


_Rice Custard_.

Boil a little mace, a quartered nutmeg in a quart of cream, add rice
(well boiled) while boiling sweeten and flavor with orange or rose
water, putting into cups or dishes, when cooled, set to serve up.


_A Rich Custard_.

Four eggs beat and put to one quart cream, sweetened to your taste,
half a nutmeg, and a little cinnamon--baked.


_A Sick Bed Custard_.

Scald a quart milk, sweeten and salt a little, whip 3 eggs and stir
in, bake on coals in a pewter vessel.


TARTS.

_Apple Tarts_.

Stew and strain the apples, add cinnamon, rose-water, wine and sugar
to your taste, lay in paste, royal, squeeze thereon orange
juice---bake gently.


_Cranberries_.

Stewed, strained and sweetened, put into paste No. 9, and baked
gently.


_Marmalade_, laid into paste No. 1, baked gently.


_Apricots_, must be neither pared, cut or stoned, but put in whole,
and sugar sifted over them, as above.


_Orange or Lemon Tart_.

Take 6 large lemons, rub them well in salt, put them into salt and
water and let rest 2 days, change them daily in fresh water, 14 days,
then cut slices and mince as fine as you can and boil them 2 or 3
hours till tender, then take 6 pippins, pare, quarter and core them,
boil in 1 pint fair water till the pippins break, then put the half of
the pippins, with all the liquor to the orange or lemon, and add one
pound sugar, boil all together one quarter of an hour, put into a
gallipot and squeeze thereto a fresh orange, one spoon of which, with
a spoon of the pulp of the pippin, laid into a thin royal paste, laid
into small shallow pans or saucers, brushed with melted butter, and
some superfine sugar sifted thereon, with a gentle baking, will be
very good.

N.B. pastry pans, or saucers, must be buttered lightly before the
paste is laid on. If glass or China be used, have only a top crust,
you can garnish with cut paste, like a lemon pudding or serve on paste
No. 7.


_Gooseberry Tart_.

Lay clean berries and sift over them sugar, then berries and sugar
'till a deep dish be filled, cover with paste No. 9, and bake some
what more than other tarts.


_Grapes_, must be cut in two and stoned and done like a Gooseberry.


SYLLABUBS.

_To make a fine Syllabub from the Cow_.

Sweeten a quart of cyder with double refined sugar, grate nutmeg into
it, then milk your cow into your liquor, when you have thus added what
quantity of milk you think proper, pour half a pint or more, in
proportion to the quantity of syllabub you make, of the sweetest cream
you can get all over it.


_A Whipt Syllabub_.

Take two porringers of cream and one of white wine, grate in the skin
of a lemon, take the whites of three eggs, sweeten it to your taste,
then whip it with a whisk, take off the froth as it rises and put it
into your syllabub glasses or pots, and they are fit for use.


_To make a fine Cream_.

Take a pint of cream, sweeten it to your pallate, grate a little
nutmeg, put in a spoonful of orange flower water and rose water, and
two sponfuls of wine; beat up four eggs and two whites, stir it all
together one way over the fire till it is thick, have cups ready and
pour it in.


_Lemon Cream_.

Take the juice of four large lemons, half a pint of water, a pound of
double refined sugar beaten fine, the whites of seven eggs and the
yolk of one beaten very well; mix altogether, strain it, set it on a
gentle fire, stirring it all the while and skim it clean, put into it
the peal of one lemon, when it is very hot, but not to boil; take out
the lemon peal and pour it into china dishes.


_Raspberry Cream_.

Take a quart of thick sweet cream and boil it two or three wallops,
then take it off the fire and strain some juices of raspberries into
it to your taste, stir it a good while before you put your juice in,
that it may be almost cold, when you put it to it, and afterwards stir
it one way for almost a quarter of an hour; then sweeten it to your
taste and when it is cold you may send it up.

_Whipt Cream_.

Take a quart of cream and the whites of 8 eggs beaten with half a pint
of wine; mix it together and sweeten it to your taste with double
refined sugar, you may perfume it (if you please) with musk or Amber
gum tied in a rag and steeped a little in the cream, whip it up with a
whisk and a bit of lemon peel tyed in the middle of the whisk, take
off the froth with a spoon, and put into glasses.


_A Trifle_.

Fill a dish with biscuit finely broken, rusk and spiced cake, wet with
wine, then pour a good boil'd custard, (not too thick) over the rusk,
and put a syllabub over that; garnish with jelley and flowers.


CAKE.

_Plumb Cake_.

Mix one pound currants, one drachm nutmeg, mace and cinnamon each, a
little salt, one pound of citron, orange peal candied, and almonds
bleach'd, 6 pound of flour, (well dry'd) beat 21 eggs, and add with 1
quart new ale yeast, half pint of wine, 3 half pints of cream and
raisins, q: s:


_Plain Cake_.

Nine pound of flour, 3 pound of sugar, 3 pound of butter, 1 quart
emptins, 1 quart milk, 9 eggs, 1 ounce of spice, 1 gill of rose-water,
1 gill of wine.


_Another_.

Three quarters of a pound of sugar, 1 pound of butter, 6 eggs work'd
into 1 pound of flour.


_A rich Cake_.

Rub 2 pound of butter into 5 pound of flour, add 15 eggs (not much
beaten) 1 pint of emptins, 1 pint of wine, kneed up stiff like
biscuit, cover well and put by and let rise over night.

To 2 and a half pound raisins, add 1 gill brandy, to soak over night,
or if new half an hour in the morning, add them with 1 gill rose-water
and 2 and half pound of loaf sugar, 1 ounce cinnamon, work well and
bake as loaf cake, No. 1.


_Potato Cake_.

Boil potatoes, peal and pound them, add yolks of eggs, wine and melted
butter work with flour into paste, shape as you please, bake and pour
over these melted butter, wine and sugar.


_Johny Cake, or Hoe Cake_.

Scald 1 pint of milk and put to 3 pints of Indian meal, and half pint
of flower--bake before the fire. Or scald with milk two thirds of the
Indian meal, or wet two thirds with boiling water, add salt, molasses
and shortening, work up with cold water pretty stiff, and bake as
above.


_Indian Slapjack_.

One quart of milk, 1 pint of indian meal, 4 eggs 4 spoons of flour,
little salt, beat together, baked on gridles, or fry in a dry pan, or
baked in a pan which has been rub'd with suet, lard or butter.


_Loaf Cakes_.

No. 1. Rub 6 pound of sugar, 2 pound of lard, 3 pound of butter into
12 pound of flour, add 18 eggs, 1 quart of milk, 2 ounces of cinnamon,
2 small nutmegs, a tea cup of coriander seed, each pounded fine and
sifted, add one pint of brandy, half a pint of wine, 6 pound of stoned
raisins, 1 pint of emptins, first having dried your flour in the oven,
dry and roll the sugar fine, rub your shortning and sugar half an
hour, it will render the cake much whiter and lighter, heat the oven
with dry wood, for 1 and a half hours, if large pans be used, it will
then require 2 hours baking, and in proportion for smaller loaves. To
frost it. Whip 6 whites, during the baking, add 3 pound of sifted loaf
sugar and put on thick, as it comes hot from the oven. Some return the
frosted loaf into the oven, it injures and yellows it, if the frosting
be put on immediately it does best without being returned into the
oven.


_Another_.

No. 2. Rub 4 pound of sugar, 3 and a half pound of shortning, (half
butter and half lard) into 9 pound of flour, 1 dozen of eggs, 2 ounces
of cinnamon, 1 pint of milk, 3 spoonfuls coriander seed, 3 gills of
brandy, 1 gill of wine, 3 gills of emptins, 4 pounds of raisins.



_Another_.

No. 3. Six pound of flour, 3 of sugar, 2 and a half pound of
shortning, (half butter, half lard) 6 eggs, 1 nutmeg, 1 ounce of
cinnamon and 1 ounce of coriander seed, 1 pint of emptins, 2 gills
brandy, 1 pint of milk and 3 pound of raisins.


_Another_.

No. 4. Five pound of flour, 2 pound of butter, 2 and a half pounds of
loaf sugar, 2 and a half pounds of raisins, 15 eggs, 1 pint of wine, 1
pint of emptins, 1 ounce of cinnamon, 1 gill rose-water, 1 gill of
brandy--baked like No. 1.


_Another Plain cake_.

No. 5. Two quarts milk, 3 pound of sugar, 3 pound of shortning, warmed
hot, add a quart of sweet cyder, this curdle, add 18 eggs, allspice
and orange to your taste, or fennel, carroway or coriander seeds; put
to 9 pounds of flour, 3 pints emptins, and bake well.


_Cookies_.

One pound sugar boiled slowly in half pint water, scum well and cool,
add two tea spoons pearl ash dissolved in milk, then two and half
pounds flour, rub in 4 ounces butter, and two large spoons of finely
powdered coriander seed, wet with above; make roles half an inch thick
and cut to the shape you please; bake fifteen or twenty minutes in a
slack oven--good three weeks.


Another _Christmas Cookey_.

To three pound flour, sprinkle a tea cup of fine powdered coriander
seed, rub in one pound butter, and one and half pound sugar, dissolve
three tea spoonfuls of pearl ash in a tea cup of milk, kneed all
together well, roll three quarters of an inch thick, and cut or stamp
into shape and size you please, bake slowly fifteen or twenty minutes;
tho' hard and dry at first, if put into an earthern pot, and dry
cellar, or damp room, they will be finer, softer and better when six
months old.


_Molasses Gingerbread_.

One table spoon of cinnamon, some coriander or allspice, put to four
tea spoons pearl ash, dissolved in half pint water, four pound flour,
one quart molasses, four ounces butter, (if in summer rub in the
butter, if in winter, warm the butter and molasses and pour to the
spiced flour,) knead well 'till stiff, the more the better, the
lighter and whiter it will be; bake brisk fifteen minutes; don't
scorch; before it is put in, wash it with whites and sugar beat
together.


_Gingerbread Cakes_, or butter and sugar Gingerbread.

No. 1. Three pounds of flour, a grated nutmeg, two ounces ginger, one
pound sugar, three small spoons pearl ash dissolved in cream, one
pound butter, four eggs, knead it stiff, shape it to your fancy, bake
15 minutes.


_Soft Gingerbread to be baked in pans_.

No. 2. Rub three pounds of sugar, two pounds of butter, into four
pounds of flour, add 20 eggs, 4 ounces ginger, 4 spoons rose water,
bake as No. 1.


_Butter drop do_.

No. 3. Rub one quarter of a pound butter, one pound sugar, sprinkled
with mace, into one pound and a quarter flour, add four eggs, one
glass rose water, bake as No. 1.


_Gingerbread_.

No. 4. Three pound sugar, half pound butter, quarter of a pound of
ginger, one doz. eggs, one glass rose water, rub into three pounds
flour, bake as No. 1.


_A cheap seed Cake_.

Rub one pound sugar, half an ounce allspice into four quarts flour,
into which pour one pound butter, melted in one pint milk, nine eggs,
one gill emptins, (carroway seed and currants, or raisins if you
please) make into two loaves, bake one and half hour.